---
permalink: /
title: "Hani Alomari's Homepage"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a first-year Ph.D. student in Computer Science at Virginia Tech, specializing in applied machine learning with a focus on natural language processing (NLP) and computer vision (CV). My research interests encompass a broad range of problems related to these areas, including text-to-image generation and any other NLP/CV applications. Currently, I am advised by [Dr. Chris Thomas](https://people.cs.vt.edu/chris/), where we are targeting different topics in multimodel research. 

Research Interest 
======
Currently, I am receptive to fresh ideas, since I have not yet determined my area of research study. What I do know is that I wish to engage in work linked to applied machine-learning problems. Since the majority of my prior research relates to Natural Language processing, I want to investigate new domains that interact with it, such as computer vision and how to generate an image from text, or work on multimodal applications that rely on text and other aspects of input. However, if I were given the chance to work on natural language processing applications, I would investigate weakly supervised learning methods, such as few-shot learning, zero-shot learning, and self-supervised learning, to improve a variety of categorization and information extraction tasks. Natural language processing has a lot of potential applications in the healthcare industry; for instance, it might be used to assist physicians in reading and analyzing a variety of medical data in order to make diagnoses and prognoses for their present patients.

I am also willing to work on improving multimodal transportation recommendation systems that rely on multiple different types of transportation methods. I participated in the publication of a conference paper on transport recommendation systems at the ICICS conference, which aims to provide diverse route options for multiple modes of transportation based on user preferences. In addition, I am interested in studies linked to autonomous cars since I believe that there are a number of advantages to becoming totally driverless, such as increased safety, efficiency, and decreased time spent driving. We may apply multiple machine-learning algorithms to different difficulties associated with autonomous cars, such as vision, and improve object identification in a bad environment by employing alternative strategies that will enhance detection performance. There are several research gaps concerning autonomous cars that require examination and resolution.

Previous Research Experience
======
During the years of doing my undergraduate degree in Computer Science and Master's degree in Data Science, I became involved in several research projects that focus on Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing in particular. I became interested in research after enrolling in a Data Science class during my undergraduate studies. I asked the class's instructor to act as a supervisor for my research projects. The Instructor agreed and we worked on different tasks together, such as Emotion Detection, Propaganda and Fake News Detection, Memes Analysis and Detection of Offensive Memes, and Transport Recommender systems. These were all done during my undergraduate studies. Furthermore, my Computer Science graduation project was a research-based project about Emotion Detection in a conversation between two users, where we trained different types of models like the Bidirectional long short-term model and Transformer-based model then we used ensemble techniques to detect the kind of emotion in the conversation.

As for the work I have done while doing my Master's degree, I was involved in a variety of research projects, including Sarcasm Detection, Malware Detection in android devices, Humor and offensive language detection and rating, Weather forecasting in Jordan, and Breast Cancer classification. Whereas most of the previous research was done as a term paper. For my Master's thesis, I worked on a Question Answering extraction system for the Arabic language using Deep Learning Techniques. The project consisted of developing a dataset that contains 10000 questions and answer pairs from 2000 paragraphs extracted from Wikipedia and covers a wide variety of topics. The dataset got annotated by expert annotators to write five questions and answers for each paragraph, after that we called it the So2al-wa-Gwab dataset. Then we define baseline results for all the available datasets and our dataset by training Bi-directional Attention Flow and QANet models, where the objective of the model is to extract the answer from a given paragraph and question. Then we fine-tuned different types of state-of-the-art Transformer models for the Arabic language and provide a thorough comparison and analysis between different types of models and result. Finally, it worth mentioning that I have been able to publish my work at various conferences such as the NLP4IF, ICICS, SNAMS, and NAACL, where all of them got cited by 52 different papers, as shown on Google Scholar.
